
TASK 2
Here we learn about OSI model
- it have 7 layers. Data flows through them from top to bottom and vise-versa
  vii. Application
    > provides networking options to programs running on a computer.
    > works almost exclusively with applications, providing an interface for them to use in order to transmit data. 
  vi. Presentation
    > presentation layer receives data from the application layer. This data tends to be in a format that the application understands, but it's not necessarily in a standardised format that could be understood by the application layer in the receiving computer. 
    > It translates the data into a standardised format, as well as handling any encryption, compression or other transformations to the data.
  v. Session
    > It receives the correctly formatted data from the presentation layer, it looks to see if it can set up a connection with the other computer across the network.
    >  If it can't then it sends back an error and the process goes no further. 
    > If a session can be established then it's the job of the session layer to maintain it, as well as co-operate with the session layer of the remote computer in order to synchronise communications. 
  iv. Transport
    >  choose the protocol over which the data is to be transmitted. The two most common protocols in the transport layer are TCP (Transmission Control Protocol) and UDP (User Datagram Protocol).
    > TCP - connection-oriented,safe,slow,ordered delivery.
    > UDP - connection-less,not safe,fast,not ordered delivery.
    > With a protocol selected, the transport layer then divides the transmission up into bite-sized pieces (over TCP these are called segments, over UDP they're called datagrams),making it easier to transmit.
  iii. Network
    > responsible for locating the destination of your request.
    > At this stage we're working with what is referred to as Logical addressing (i.e. IP addresses) 
  ii. Data Link
    > focuses on the physical addressing of the transmission.
    > It receives a packet from the network layer (that includes the IP address for the remote computer) and adds in the physical (MAC) address of the receiving endpoint. 
    > Inside every network enabled computer is a Network Interface Card (NIC) which comes with a unique MAC (Media Access Control) address to identify it.Set by manufacturer, can't be changed.
    > When information is sent across a network, it's actually the physical address that is used to identify where exactly to send the information.
    >  it's also the job of the data link layer to present the data in a format suitable for transmission.
    > also serves an important function when it receives data, as it checks the received information to make sure that it hasn't been corrupted during transmission, which could well happen when the data is transmitted by layer 1: the physical layer.
  i. Physical
    > It is right down to the hardware of the computer. 
    > This is where the electrical pulses that make up data transfer over a network are sent and received.
    > It's the job of the physical layer to convert the binary data of the transmission into signals and transmit them across the network, as well as receiving incoming signals and converting them back into binary data.

a.Which layer would choose to send data over TCP or UDP?
sol. 4

b. Which layer checks received information to make sure that it hasn't been corrupted?
sol. 2

c. In which layer would data be formatted in preparation for transmission?
sol. 2

d. Which layer transmits and receives data?
sol. 1

e. Which layer encrypts, compresses, or otherwise transforms the initial data to give it a standardised format?
sol. 6

f. Which layer tracks communications between the host and receiving computers?
sol. 5

g. Which layer accepts communication requests from applications?
sol. 7

h. Which layer handles logical addressing?
sol. 3

i. When sending data over TCP, what would you call the "bite-sized" pieces of data?
sol. Segments

j. [Research] Which layer would the FTP protocol communicate with?
sol. 7

k. Which transport layer protocol would be best suited to transmit a live video?
sol. UDP

TASK 3
Encapsulation 
Comming down from application layer to physical layer the data is encapsulated which mean an header and maybe a trailer is added.
Layer           name                               header or trailer added 
7               Data.                             layer 7 header is added
6               Data.                             layer 6 header is added
5               Data.                             layer 5 header is added
4               segment/datagrams.                layer 4 header is added
3               packet.                           layer 3 header is added
2               Frame.                            layer 2 header and trailer is added
1               datastream (bits).                converted in bits.

When the message is received by the second computer, it reverses the process -- starting at the physical layer and working up until it reaches the application layer, stripping off the added information as it goes. This is referred to as de-encapsulation. 

a. How would you refer to data at layer 2 of the encapsulation process (with the OSI model)?
sol. Frames

b. How would you refer to data at layer 4 of the encapsulation process (with the OSI model), if the UDP protocol has been selected?
sol. Datagrams

c. What process would a computer perform on a received message?
sol. De-encapsulation

d. Which is the only layer of the OSI model to add a trailer during encapsulation?
sol. Data Link

e. Does encapsulation provide an extra layer of security (Aye/Nay)?
sol. Aye

TASK 4
TCP/IP model
- It's a few years older, and serves as the basis for real-world networking.
- 4 layers
      TCP/IP                      OSI
    Application                Application,presentation,session
    Transport                  Transport
    Internet                   Network
    Network Interface          Data link,physical

- At each layer of the TCP/IP model a header is added during encapsulation, and removed during de-encapsulation.
- TCP/IP takes its name from the two most important suite of protocols (sets of rules that define how an action is to be carried out) TCP( Transmission Control Protocol ) and IP( Internet Protocol ). which controls how packets are addressed and sent. 
TCP
-It's a connection-based protocol.before you send any data via TCP, you must first form a stable connection between the two computers. The process of forming this connection is called the three-way handshake.
-STEP 1: When you attempt to make a connection, your computer first sends a special request to the remote server indicating that it wants to initialise a connection.
  This request contains something called a SYN (short for synchronise) bit, which essentially makes first contact in starting the connection process
-STEP 2: server will then respond with a packet containing the SYN bit, as well as another "acknowledgement" bit, called ACK. 
-STEP 3: Finally, your computer will send a packet that contains the ACK bit by itself, confirming that the connection has been setup successfully. 
-With the three-way handshake successfully completed, data can be reliably transmitted between the two computers. Any data that is lost or corrupted on transmission is re-sent, thus leading to a connection which appears to be lossless.

a. Which model was introduced first, OSI or TCP/IP?
sol. TCP/IP

b. Which layer of the TCP/IP model covers the functionality of the Transport layer of the OSI model (Full Name)?
sol. Transport

c. Which layer of the TCP/IP model covers the functionality of the Session layer of the OSI model (Full Name)?
sol. Application

d. The Network Interface layer of the TCP/IP model covers the functionality of two layers in the OSI model. These layers are Data Link, and?.. (Full Name)?
sol. Physical

e. Which layer of the TCP/IP model handles the functionality of the OSI network layer?
sol. Internet

f. What kind of protocol is TCP?
sol. Connection-based

g. What is SYN short for?
sol. Synchronise

h. What is the second step of the three way handshake?
sol. SYN/ACK

i. What is the short name for the "Acknowledgement" segment in the three-way handshake?
sol. ACK

TASK 5
PING
-  used when we want to test whether a connection to a remote resource is possible. 
- Usually this will be a website on the internet, but it could also be for a computer on your home network if you want to check if it's configured correctly
- Ping works using the ICMP protocol, which is one of the slightly less well-known TCP/IP protocol
- ICMP protocol works on the Network layer of the OSI Model, and thus the Internet layer of the TCP/IP model.
-  syntax:     ping <target>.
- for more information we can use man tool.

a. What command would you use to ping the bbc.co.uk website?
sol. ping bbc.co.uk

b. Ping muirlandoracle.co.uk
What is the IPv4 address?
sol. 217.160.0.152

c.What switch lets you change the interval of sent ping requests?
sol. -i

d. What switch would allow you to restrict requests to IPv4?
sol. -4

e. What switch would give you a more verbose output?
sol. -v

TASK 6
